docs/_docs/Students/Exposing-concerns.md, before:

---
title: Exposing Concerns
category: Students
order: 1
---

> ⚠️ This page is being updated. Contact us at info@lisbondatascience.org for any questions.

As clearly explained in the [code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct), we designed the Academy to be a safe space, where there is physical and psychological safety. Bullying or unprofessional conduct will not be tolerated by any student or staff. 

With that in mind, what should you do it you believe that someone is not respecting that principle? First, let's establish a few principles:

1. You don't have to have been the victim to express a concern. If you believe that someone is being bullied, reporting the situation may be helping that person. 
2. You don't have to be 100% sure. The burden of determining whether there is enough evidence is on us, not on you. If you see something, say something. 
3. You don't need to own the consequences. Once you have reported something, you can remain 100% anonymous. Even if you are reporting something that happened to you, we will talk about "what happened" without saying who expressed the concern. You will not be cross examined or otherwise forced to be involved. 

### What constitutes something worth reporting? 
We know. This is uncomfortable. Let's separate two types of issues: 
1. Personal - issues which are related to people's psychological safety, such as harassment, bullying, sexual harassment, or even general rudeness. We have a 0 tolerance policy towards these, and please, please, please report them if you see them, even if they aren't affecting you directly. Remember, someone who is being victim of harassment may not feel comfortable speaking out. There is nothing honorable about witnessing this and staying quiet. Saw something? Say something. Don't think twice about it.   
1. Not personal - issues which don't affect people directly, such as a student sharing answers or a break of environmental policy. These affect the Academy in a more systematic way, and knowing about them makes the academy better. We understand however that you may not feel comfortable coming forward and that these don't feel as directly harmful as the "personal" category. Use your best judgement. 

### How should you express a concern? 
You have two mechanisms. 

First, you can approach a staff member, and explain the situation. The staff member will take this to the Academy Executive, and from that point the process is described [here](../../About us/Disciplinary-action). In this mode, the disciplinary committee will know who reported the situation, but no one else needs to know. This is the preferred method, as we get to ask more details. 

Alternatively, if you really don't feel comfortable expression a concern but think we should know about it, you can use [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeqSl_jatUTfXrVPBVaZuaKK0ygxQ065nnAZdPG4mG7ht_-Zw/viewform?usp=sf_link). This will be read by a member of the Disciplinary Committee, who will have no way of knowing who you are. This method is available, but if you feel comfortable talking to a staff member that makes it easier for us to establish what happened.  

### What happens after you report a concern? 
A staff member will bring it to the executive committee, which in turn will reference it to the disciplinary committee. The process is described [here](../../About us/Disciplinary-action). We will act on the evidence that we have available, but if you do not feel comfortable you will never be made to be involved in the process. 

Thank you for reading, and helping make the Academy a safe space for everyone!

Commit message:

removing outdated refs to disciplinary commission and form #187

docs/_docs/Students/Exposing-concerns.md, after:

---
title: Exposing Concerns
category: Students
order: 1
---


As clearly explained in the [code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct), we designed the Academy to be a safe space, where there is physical and psychological safety. Bullying or unprofessional conduct will not be tolerated by any student or staff. 

With that in mind, what should you do it you believe that someone is not respecting that principle? First, let's establish a few principles:

1. You don't have to have been the victim to express a concern. If you believe that someone is being bullied, reporting the situation may be helping that person. 
2. You don't have to be 100% sure. The burden of determining whether there is enough evidence is on us, not on you. If you see something, say something. 
3. You don't need to own the consequences. Once you have reported something, you can remain 100% anonymous. Even if you are reporting something that happened to you, we will talk about "what happened" without saying who expressed the concern. You will not be cross examined or otherwise forced to be involved. 

### What constitutes something worth reporting? 
We know. This is uncomfortable. Let's separate two types of issues: 
1. Personal - issues which are related to people's psychological safety, such as harassment, bullying, sexual harassment, or even general rudeness. We have a 0 tolerance policy towards these, and please, please, please report them if you see them, even if they aren't affecting you directly. Remember, someone who is being victim of harassment may not feel comfortable speaking out. There is nothing honorable about witnessing this and staying quiet. Saw something? Say something. Don't think twice about it.   
1. Not personal - issues which don't affect people directly, such as a student sharing answers or a break of environmental policy. These affect the Academy in a more systematic way, and knowing about them makes the academy better. We understand however that you may not feel comfortable coming forward and that these don't feel as directly harmful as the "personal" category. Use your best judgement. 

### How should you express a concern? 

You can approach any staff member and explain the situation. The staff member will take this to the Executive Team, and from that point the process is described [here](../../About us/Disciplinary-action).

Alternatively, you can email the Executive Team directly at `exec@lisbondatascience.org`.

### What happens after you report a concern? 
The process is described [here](../../About us/Disciplinary-action). We will act on the evidence that we have available, but if you do not feel comfortable you will never be made to be involved in the process. 

Thank you for reading, and helping make the Academy a safe space for everyone!
