docs/_docs/Volunteers/Volunteer-Onboarding.md, before:

---
title: Volunteer Onboarding
category: Volunteers
order: 1
---

Welcome to the official Volunteer Onboarding page which is meant to be your **main** **reference point** at the LDSA.

What's in this page:
- [Onboarding checklist](#onboarding-checklist)
- [Documentation](#finding-stuff)
   - [This wiki](#this-wiki)
   - [Our Google Drive](#our-google-drive)
   - [GitHub](#github)
- [Communication](#communication)
- [Important documents and links](#important-documents-and-links)
- [Start guide for Instructors](#start-guide-for-instructors)

<br>

## Onboarding checklist


Make sure you check all items on the checklist below before anything else. If you need help, ask anyone from the Executive Team or the Documentation AOR ([member directory](../../About us/Member-Directory)).

   1. ⬜️ Read and agree to our [code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct)

   2. ⬜️ Have access to the _Leaders of LDSAcademy_ Slack workspace **and** other relevant workspaces (e.g. Batch 5)
    
   3. ⬜️ Have a staff Google Account (`@lisbondatascience.org`) with full access to Google Drive, Gmail and Calendar

   4. ⬜️ Subscribe to these Google calendars (after logging in with your new staff account):
      - [LDSSA Instructors Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_oqhjbe9r3cv5kqkotkes373dog%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon) -- our internal deadlines;
      - **(optional)** [LDSSA Birthday Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ki195gmib0aln8b8ipk6cg925c%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon);
      - LDSSA Batch #5 (to be created) -- general deadlines visible to students.

      **Note**: To add the calendars, (1) make sure you're logged in to your `@lisbondatascience.org` account on Google, (2) click on each of the calendar links above and click the button <img src="../../images/add_calendar_icon.png" width="12%"/> at the right-bottom of each calendar's webpage.

   5. ⬜️ Ask a member of the dev-ops team to add your GitHub handle (username) to the organization's GitHub

   6. ⬜️ Introduce yourself on Slack! 😀

**If** you are going to be an AOR Primary Enabler (the lead of an AOR) you also need to sign the [LDSA Primary Enabler Agreement](../LDSA-Primary-Enabler-Agreement).

You're now official part of the team!



## Finding stuff

We have three main places where important reference material is stored. In no
way should Slack be a place where you go to find important stuff.

### This wiki

This wiki is where we write and keep simple things that need to be distributed
as a web page and easily viewable in a browser without the need to login or authenticate
anywhere. Examples of this would be this onboarding document or the Starters
Academy course description.

There are three main ways to find things on this wiki:

1. Go here and use the sidebar at the top left of the page as a regular search;
1. Browse the sidebar and visually scan for what you need;
1. Use CTRL-F in your browser and look at the results on the sidebar.

### Our Google Drive

Members that have more administrative duties will have an @lisbondatascience.org
Google Workplace account. In that account is a folder that is shared with everyone
called "Index": https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1dlVRsbnHiw9xJYosAvtdkthqxDyU2-27.

This is not the most organized drive folder but there is an
ongoing attempt to keep things organized by their [AOR](../../About us/LDSA-Areas-of-Responsibility).

Things that should be stored in the Google Drive are for when a specific need
arises and a wiki cannot support it. Examples are needing spreadsheets or
needing to iterate on an early-stage idea using comments and assigned TODOs.

There are two main ways that you can find stuff in the google drive Index folder:

1. Use the regular google drive search bar
1. Browse the folder structure looking inside of folders according to their AOR

### GitHub

For any general question, feedback, etc.,  **open an issue** on the LDSSA/wiki, for anything related with notebook solutions and any other sensitive information that cannot be revealed to the students, please use the LDSSA/batch-5-instructors repo.
1. [Wiki](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki)
2. [batch5-instructors](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-instructors)

There are also repos specific to certain AORs, such as the [Curriculum Development](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development). If you're working in QA, for example, you'll be given access to specific repos where you should open work-related issues.

For any other thing however, do use the Wiki issues section.

## Communication

### Where?
1. Use **Slack** for notifications and quick conversations that don't need to last
   for more than 48 hours. Any information that is on Slack and is older than
   48 hours should be considered unreliable. If it is important enough, it needs
   to be recorded somewhere else.
1. Use **GitHub issues** for traceable discussions. If you need to make a big decision
   that everyone needs to be aware of and will span multiple days or weeks,
   it needs to exist as a GitHub issue. In genera it should go to the Wiki repo but, if the issue is specific to the current Batch or DS Prep Course editions, or to an AOR that has their own repo (e.g. Curriculum Development), you can use those repos issue section too. Notice that some repos are public and other private, so careful when opening an issue that might reveal exercise solutions or sensitive information. When QAing before the release of an SLU, for example, all issues should be opened in a private repo (usually something like `<course-name>-instructors`).

> _**If it's not a GitHub issue, it doesn't exist.**_ 🌳

### How?
1. Ask publicly if possible. More people will see the question and you have a better chance of getting a good answer.
1. When choosing how and where to ask, try to guess what AOR is most likely to have an answer (hint: check the [Member Directory](../../About us/Member-Directory)) and ask in that slack channel or forum.


## Important documents and links

Here is a list of important things that you should definitely read and be familiar with regardless of your role in the organization.

1. [Our mission and values](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EDQF8lFZA0DYKhru57rxLI4d7s3ReiN90BFdjTHtP-Q/edit?usp=sharing);
1. [Our code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct) - If you've been accepted and gone through the checklist you already read and agreed to it;
1. [The Academy](../../About us/Lisbon-Data-Science-Academy-(Organization)) - Learn about the difference between the LDSA and LDSSA;
1. [The Starters Academy](../../Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Starters-Academy-(Course)) - Main reference for the format and what will
   be covered in the Starters Academy;
1. [The academy AORs](../../About us/LDSA-Areas-of-Responsibility)- We divide responsibilities via things called
   Areas of Responsibility (AORs);
1. [Member Directory](../../About us/Member-Directory) - Who is responsible for what.

## Start guide for instructors

If you are coming on as an instructor, there's some additional technical documentation that you'll need to be aware of.

1. [The curriculum development repo](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development) - This is the source of truth for the curriculum that is being taught during the current batch. When you accept development of an LU, this dictates the topics that you must cover.
1. [`batch4-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch4-instructors) - The learning materials developed for **LDSSA (Batch 4)**.
1. [`ds-prep-course-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-instructors) - The learning materials developed for **DS Prep Course (2020)**.
1. `batch<edition-number>-instructors` (only accessible to LDSA staff - you need to be logged in!) - This is the single source of truth for the learning material that will be deployed to students. You push to this repo, open PRs to start the QA process, and then via some CD will be sent to the students. Example: the repo for Batch 5 is [`batch5-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-instructors).
1. `batch<edition-number>-students` (**public**) - This is is the single source of truth for the learning material from the perspective of the students. They are not aware of the existence of the instructors repo. Example: the repo for Batch 5, for students, is [`batch5-students`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-students).
1. For the Prep Course, you have a similar structure of repos. One will be the `ds-prep-course-instructors-<edition-year>`, the student's will be the `ds-prep-course-<edition-year>`.
1. Refer to the [Member Directory page](../../About us/Member-Directory) to know who to contact for **Curriculum**, **Teaching** and **QA** AORs for the LDSA, as well as the specific AORs for the Prep Course.
1. Learning Materials Development - < _To be done._ >
* How does it work?
* Setting Up
* Developing Learning Notebooks
* Developing Exercise Notebooks
* Submitting Notebooks
* Quality Assurance Process

## Start guide for QAers [WIP]

< _To be done._ >

Commit message:

replace index reference by shared drive reference (#325)
Co-authored-by: Juliana-R <juliana.rodrigues@outlookt.p>

docs/_docs/Volunteers/Volunteer-Onboarding.md, after:

---
title: Volunteer Onboarding
category: Volunteers
order: 1
---

Welcome to the official Volunteer Onboarding page which is meant to be your **main** **reference point** at the LDSA.

What's in this page:
- [Onboarding checklist](#onboarding-checklist)
- [Documentation](#finding-stuff)
   - [This wiki](#this-wiki)
   - [Our Google Drive](#our-google-drive)
   - [GitHub](#github)
- [Communication](#communication)
- [Important documents and links](#important-documents-and-links)
- [Start guide for Instructors](#start-guide-for-instructors)

<br>

## Onboarding checklist


Make sure you check all items on the checklist below before anything else. If you need help, ask anyone from the Executive Team or the Documentation AOR ([member directory](../../About us/Member-Directory)).

   1. ⬜️ Read and agree to our [code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct)

   2. ⬜️ Have access to the _Leaders of LDSAcademy_ Slack workspace **and** other relevant workspaces (e.g. Batch 5)
    
   3. ⬜️ Have a staff Google Account (`@lisbondatascience.org`) with full access to Google Drive, Gmail and Calendar

   4. ⬜️ Subscribe to these Google calendars (after logging in with your new staff account):
      - [LDSSA Instructors Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_oqhjbe9r3cv5kqkotkes373dog%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon) -- our internal deadlines;
      - **(optional)** [LDSSA Birthday Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ki195gmib0aln8b8ipk6cg925c%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon);
      - LDSSA Batch #5 (to be created) -- general deadlines visible to students.

      **Note**: To add the calendars, (1) make sure you're logged in to your `@lisbondatascience.org` account on Google, (2) click on each of the calendar links above and click the button <img src="../../images/add_calendar_icon.png" width="12%"/> at the right-bottom of each calendar's webpage.

   5. ⬜️ Ask a member of the dev-ops team to add your GitHub handle (username) to the organization's GitHub

   6. ⬜️ Introduce yourself on Slack! 😀

**If** you are going to be an AOR Primary Enabler (the lead of an AOR) you also need to sign the [LDSA Primary Enabler Agreement](../LDSA-Primary-Enabler-Agreement).

You're now official part of the team!



## Finding stuff

We have three main places where important reference material is stored. In no
way should Slack be a place where you go to find important stuff.

### This wiki

This wiki is where we write and keep simple things that need to be distributed
as a web page and easily viewable in a browser without the need to login or authenticate
anywhere. Examples of this would be this onboarding document or the Starters
Academy course description.

There are three main ways to find things on this wiki:

1. Go here and use the sidebar at the top left of the page as a regular search;
1. Browse the sidebar and visually scan for what you need;
1. Use CTRL-F in your browser and look at the results on the sidebar.

### Our Google Drive

When you log in Google with your ´@lisbondatascience.org`
staff account, if you navigate to Google Drive, you'll see the LDSA folders under a **Shared Drive** called [**LDSA**](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0ANWHJpQstXy_Uk9PVA).

Things that should be stored in the Google Drive are for when a specific need
arises and a wiki cannot support it. Examples are needing spreadsheets or
needing to iterate on an early-stage idea using comments and assigned TODOs.

There are two main ways that you can find stuff in the google drive Index folder:

1. Use the regular google drive search bar
1. Browse the folder structure by using the dropdown arrows next to each folder name, starting from the **LDSA** folder itself.

### GitHub

For any general question, feedback, etc.,  **open an issue** on the LDSSA/wiki, for anything related with notebook solutions and any other sensitive information that cannot be revealed to the students, please use the LDSSA/batch-5-instructors repo.
1. [Wiki](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki)
2. [batch5-instructors](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-instructors)

There are also repos specific to certain AORs, such as the [Curriculum Development](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development). If you're working in QA, for example, you'll be given access to specific repos where you should open work-related issues.

For any other thing however, do use the Wiki issues section.

## Communication

### Where?
1. Use **Slack** for notifications and quick conversations that don't need to last
   for more than 48 hours. Any information that is on Slack and is older than
   48 hours should be considered unreliable. If it is important enough, it needs
   to be recorded somewhere else.
1. Use **GitHub issues** for traceable discussions. If you need to make a big decision
   that everyone needs to be aware of and will span multiple days or weeks,
   it needs to exist as a GitHub issue. In genera it should go to the Wiki repo but, if the issue is specific to the current Batch or DS Prep Course editions, or to an AOR that has their own repo (e.g. Curriculum Development), you can use those repos issue section too. Notice that some repos are public and other private, so careful when opening an issue that might reveal exercise solutions or sensitive information. When QAing before the release of an SLU, for example, all issues should be opened in a private repo (usually something like `<course-name>-instructors`).

> _**If it's not a GitHub issue, it doesn't exist.**_ 🌳

### How?
1. Ask publicly if possible. More people will see the question and you have a better chance of getting a good answer.
1. When choosing how and where to ask, try to guess what AOR is most likely to have an answer (hint: check the [Member Directory](../../About us/Member-Directory)) and ask in that slack channel or forum.


## Important documents and links

Here is a list of important things that you should definitely read and be familiar with regardless of your role in the organization.

1. [Our mission and values](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EDQF8lFZA0DYKhru57rxLI4d7s3ReiN90BFdjTHtP-Q/edit?usp=sharing);
1. [Our code of conduct](../../About us/Code-of-Conduct) - If you've been accepted and gone through the checklist you already read and agreed to it;
1. [The Academy](../../About us/Lisbon-Data-Science-Academy-(Organization)) - Learn about the difference between the LDSA and LDSSA;
1. [The Starters Academy](../../Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Starters-Academy-(Course)) - Main reference for the format and what will
   be covered in the Starters Academy;
1. [The academy AORs](../../About us/LDSA-Areas-of-Responsibility)- We divide responsibilities via things called
   Areas of Responsibility (AORs);
1. [Member Directory](../../About us/Member-Directory) - Who is responsible for what.

## Start guide for instructors

If you are coming on as an instructor, there's some additional technical documentation that you'll need to be aware of.

1. [The curriculum development repo](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development) - This is the source of truth for the curriculum that is being taught during the current batch. When you accept development of an LU, this dictates the topics that you must cover.
1. [`batch4-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch4-instructors) - The learning materials developed for **LDSSA (Batch 4)**.
1. [`ds-prep-course-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-instructors) - The learning materials developed for **DS Prep Course (2020)**.
1. `batch<edition-number>-instructors` (only accessible to LDSA staff - you need to be logged in!) - This is the single source of truth for the learning material that will be deployed to students. You push to this repo, open PRs to start the QA process, and then via some CD will be sent to the students. Example: the repo for Batch 5 is [`batch5-instructors`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-instructors).
1. `batch<edition-number>-students` (**public**) - This is is the single source of truth for the learning material from the perspective of the students. They are not aware of the existence of the instructors repo. Example: the repo for Batch 5, for students, is [`batch5-students`](https://github.com/LDSSA/batch5-students).
1. For the Prep Course, you have a similar structure of repos. One will be the `ds-prep-course-instructors-<edition-year>`, the student's will be the `ds-prep-course-<edition-year>`.
1. Refer to the [Member Directory page](../../About us/Member-Directory) to know who to contact for **Curriculum**, **Teaching** and **QA** AORs for the LDSA, as well as the specific AORs for the Prep Course.
1. Learning Materials Development - < _To be done._ >
* How does it work?
* Setting Up
* Developing Learning Notebooks
* Developing Exercise Notebooks
* Submitting Notebooks
* Quality Assurance Process

## Start guide for QAers [WIP]

< _To be done._ >
