docs/_docs/DS Prep Course/Data-Science-Prep-Course.md, before:

---
title: Data Science Prep Course
category: DS Prep Course
order: 1
---

What's in this page:

- [Course overview](#course-overview)
    - [What will be covered](#what-will-be-covered)
    - [When is the Prep Course](#when-is-the-prep-course)
    - [Fees](#fees)
- [How does the Prep Course work](#how-does-the-prep-course-work)
    - [Learning materials](#learning-materials)
    - [What support will I receive during the course](#what-support-will-i-receive-during-the-course)
    - [Time requirements](#time-requirements)
    - [Deadlines](#deadlines)
- [Schedule](#schedule)
- [Practicalities](#practicalities)
- [Late policy](#late-policy)
- [How to ask for help](#how-to-ask-for-help)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

<br>

# Course overview

The Data Science Prep Course (Prep Course) is a preparation course designed to equip you with prerequisite knowledge in order to enter the Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy (LDSSA). Having said that, the Prep Course would still be useful for anyone interested in learning Data Science, whether or not it is through Lisbon Data Science Academy (LDSA); or who is simply looking to gain foundational knowledge in Python programming. 

It is important to keep in mind that we cannot guarantee that by taking the Prep Course, you will (1) enter Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy or/and (2) secure a job in Tech. 

## What will be covered

Python Programming, Python Engineering, `numpy`, Linear Algebra, the *nix command line, Git Basics, Jupyter. You can see the curriculum in more details in this [document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JzRfuacM5Q_XsnSMgEqOZH_cCBnT0J6K-e-687fFa6s/edit#gid=2018895387).

All learning units are publicly available on the [`ds-prep-course-2021`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021) repository and you can go through it on your own.

## When is the Prep Course
The Prep Course takes place between March 29th, 2021 and June 21th, 2021.

## Fees
The Prep Course is free of charge

<br>

# How does the Prep Course work

## Learning materials
This is a 100% online and 100% remote course, where you can take it anywhere in your spare time. 
New learning materials will be released and shared with you every Monday. You are expected to go through them and complete all exercises by the end of the week. When and where you do that is totally up to you! 

## What support will I receive during the course
You have at your availability a group of dedicated instructors, who would be available to answer any of your questions. On top of that, you will be surrounded by motivated fellow students that can also help you out. Make the most out of the course!

## Time requirements
If you have no prior knowledge of any of the subjects, you should be prepared to spend an absolute minimum of 10 hours per week on the course. We understand this might sound like a lot. However, this course was not designed to give you some brief ideas on Python programming. Instead, we expect that you will fully grasp all fundamental concepts and practice enough to instinctively solve programming problems. If you already have a certain degree of knowledge of some topics, we expect the time requirements will be less. Finally, keep in mind that this recommendation does not include the preparation time for the admission test for the Starters Academy.

## Deadlines
Since the schedule is tight, you should do everything that you can in order to complete all exercises by the end of the week, but if you cannot, that is okay! These deadlines are suggestions to help you keep on track. If you fall a bit behind for whatever reason, do everything you can to get back on track! If you feel somewhat lost, or have difficulty catching up, tell us ASAP and we'll help you out. The ultimate measure of success is whether or not you can pass the exam to get into the Starters Academy.

<br>

# Schedule
As mentioned previously, this is our suggested schedule to help you keep track of your learning. That being said, feel free to skip certain topics you already know. The other way around, take the time to study the materials that you are not comfortable with.

Below we listed the 18 learning units that you need to complete, and when you should finish all the materials and exercises.


| Week | Learning Materials |
|-|-|
| **Week 0** <br> 29/03/2021 - 04/04/2021 | Setting up (Follow the instructions from [`ds-prep-course-2021`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021)) <br> **SLU00** - Jupyter Notebook |
| **Week 1** <br> 05/04/2021 - 11/04/2021 | **SLU01** - Command Lines & Text Editor <br> **SLU02** - Programming Basics |
| **Week 2** <br> 12/04/2021 - 18/04/2021 | **SLU03** - Git Basics <br> **SLU04** - Data Structures |
| **Week 3** <br> 19/04/2021 - 25/04/2021 | **SLUO5** - Git Intermediate <br> **SLU06** - Flow Control |
| **Week 4** <br> 26/04/2021 - 02/05/2021 | **SLU07** - Functions: Fundamentals <br> **SLU08** - Functions: Intermediate |
| **Week 5** <br> 03/05/2021 - 09/05/2021 | **SLU09** - OOP Basics |
| **Week 6** <br> 10/05/2021 - 16/05/2021 | **SLU10** - OOP Inheritance <br> **SLU11** - String & File Handling |
| **Week 7** <br> 17/05/2021 - 23/05/2021 | **SLU12** - Linear Algebra & NumPy, Part 1 |
| **Week 8** <br> 24/05/2021 - 30/05/2021 | **SLU13** - Linear Algebra & NumPy, Part 2 <br> **SLU14** - Modules & Packages |
| **Week 9** <br> 31/05/2021 - 06/06/2021 | **SLU15** - Debugging <br> **SLU16** - Final Project |
| **Week 10** <br> 07/06/2021 - 13/06/2021 | **SLU17** - Exam Prep I |
| **Week 11** <br> 14/06/2021 - 20/06/2021 | **SLU18** - Exam Prep II |


<br>


# Practicalities
Here we will talk about each of the channels available in our slack channel and how they should be used. This is super important because it dictates how important information will be organized. Essentially, there will be a Slack channel dedicated to each week's materials, e.g. #setup, #week-01, #week-02, #week-03. Questions should be posted to the right channels, e.g. If you have a question about Week 02, you should go to #week-02 channel and post your questions there.

![](https://i.imgur.com/rF06usq.png)

While it may seem annoying at the moment to have to remember where to post a question, the future you will GREATLY appreciate it when you are looking for where that one clever answer to that one question is. Furthermore, you'll be very grateful not to have a question about a completely unrelated subject right next to your brilliant one. Trust us, the extra effort is worth it!

<br>


# Late policy
If something happens and you could not follow the deadline, you can still ask questions about the previous week's SLU. Just remember to post it in the right Slack channel!

<br>


# How to ask for help
There is one slack rule to rule them all: **DON'T BE SHY! ASK QUESTIONS PUBLICLY**

We know and totally understand that it can be intimidating to ask a question in front of a bunch of other people that you don't even know. We've all been there and can empathize. However, the rewards of overcoming this fear and asking a question in a slack channel that everyone can see are too great to ignore. The benefits, among others, are:

1. **You will get an answer faster.** If 50 people see your question, you will get an answer faster than if 1 person does.
1. **You will get a better answer.** If 50 people see your question, you're likely get a better answer than if 1 person does.
1. **You may make a friend.** It increases the chances of interacting with an interesting person that you may not have met otherwise. These types of peers can increase your chances of success immensely. 

On top of that, for your questions to be answered in the shortest possible time, provide us with enough context to be able to answer it. Among others, you can attach a screenshot or copy-paste formatted code together with your questions. If you, as a student, see a question that you know the answer to, do it! Answer it!

<br>


# Frequently Asked Questions

##### 1. I just want to check that the whole course is 100% remote right?
Everything is 100% remote and online!

##### 2. Do I need to belong to a specific company?
No need to belong to any specific company or university

##### 3. Can you please also confirm if the prep course classes will take place after work hours (18h)?
The Prep course does not occur at any specific time. We only care about you completing all the materials scheduled for that week. Apart from that, you can learn at anywhere and anytime at your own pace.

##### 4. The course's schedule is too intensive for me, can I follow the materials at my own pace instead?
The Prep course's materials are 100% available on Github, and you can always go through it by yourself at any time. However, when the course is already finished, our instructor team will not be available to assist you with every question you might have. So, try your best to follow the Prep course' schedule and make the most out of it even though we know it might be hard sometimes! 

### **I've missed the registration for the Prep Course, but really wanted to prepare for the Academy ... What should I do?**

All materials taught in the Prep Course is publicly available [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021) . We've tried our best to give very detaled instructions so that you could follow it on your own!

Commit message:

Added temporary outdate warning on Prep Course page

docs/_docs/DS Prep Course/Data-Science-Prep-Course.md, after:

---
title: Data Science Prep Course
category: DS Prep Course
order: 1
---

> ## 🚧 This page is outdated. We will be updating it soon with info for Prep Course 2022.

What's in this page:

- [Course overview](#course-overview)
    - [What will be covered](#what-will-be-covered)
    - [When is the Prep Course](#when-is-the-prep-course)
    - [Fees](#fees)
- [How does the Prep Course work](#how-does-the-prep-course-work)
    - [Learning materials](#learning-materials)
    - [What support will I receive during the course](#what-support-will-i-receive-during-the-course)
    - [Time requirements](#time-requirements)
    - [Deadlines](#deadlines)
- [Schedule](#schedule)
- [Practicalities](#practicalities)
- [Late policy](#late-policy)
- [How to ask for help](#how-to-ask-for-help)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)

<br>

# Course overview

The Data Science Prep Course (Prep Course) is a preparation course designed to equip you with prerequisite knowledge in order to enter the Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy (LDSSA). Having said that, the Prep Course would still be useful for anyone interested in learning Data Science, whether or not it is through Lisbon Data Science Academy (LDSA); or who is simply looking to gain foundational knowledge in Python programming. 

It is important to keep in mind that we cannot guarantee that by taking the Prep Course, you will (1) enter Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy or/and (2) secure a job in Tech. 

## What will be covered

Python Programming, Python Engineering, `numpy`, Linear Algebra, the *nix command line, Git Basics, Jupyter. You can see the curriculum in more details in this [document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JzRfuacM5Q_XsnSMgEqOZH_cCBnT0J6K-e-687fFa6s/edit#gid=2018895387).

All learning units are publicly available on the [`ds-prep-course-2021`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021) repository and you can go through it on your own.

## When is the Prep Course
The Prep Course takes place between March 29th, 2021 and June 21th, 2021.

## Fees
The Prep Course is free of charge

<br>

# How does the Prep Course work

## Learning materials
This is a 100% online and 100% remote course, where you can take it anywhere in your spare time. 
New learning materials will be released and shared with you every Monday. You are expected to go through them and complete all exercises by the end of the week. When and where you do that is totally up to you! 

## What support will I receive during the course
You have at your availability a group of dedicated instructors, who would be available to answer any of your questions. On top of that, you will be surrounded by motivated fellow students that can also help you out. Make the most out of the course!

## Time requirements
If you have no prior knowledge of any of the subjects, you should be prepared to spend an absolute minimum of 10 hours per week on the course. We understand this might sound like a lot. However, this course was not designed to give you some brief ideas on Python programming. Instead, we expect that you will fully grasp all fundamental concepts and practice enough to instinctively solve programming problems. If you already have a certain degree of knowledge of some topics, we expect the time requirements will be less. Finally, keep in mind that this recommendation does not include the preparation time for the admission test for the Starters Academy.

## Deadlines
Since the schedule is tight, you should do everything that you can in order to complete all exercises by the end of the week, but if you cannot, that is okay! These deadlines are suggestions to help you keep on track. If you fall a bit behind for whatever reason, do everything you can to get back on track! If you feel somewhat lost, or have difficulty catching up, tell us ASAP and we'll help you out. The ultimate measure of success is whether or not you can pass the exam to get into the Starters Academy.

<br>

# Schedule
As mentioned previously, this is our suggested schedule to help you keep track of your learning. That being said, feel free to skip certain topics you already know. The other way around, take the time to study the materials that you are not comfortable with.

Below we listed the 18 learning units that you need to complete, and when you should finish all the materials and exercises.


| Week | Learning Materials |
|-|-|
| **Week 0** <br> 29/03/2021 - 04/04/2021 | Setting up (Follow the instructions from [`ds-prep-course-2021`](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021)) <br> **SLU00** - Jupyter Notebook |
| **Week 1** <br> 05/04/2021 - 11/04/2021 | **SLU01** - Command Lines & Text Editor <br> **SLU02** - Programming Basics |
| **Week 2** <br> 12/04/2021 - 18/04/2021 | **SLU03** - Git Basics <br> **SLU04** - Data Structures |
| **Week 3** <br> 19/04/2021 - 25/04/2021 | **SLUO5** - Git Intermediate <br> **SLU06** - Flow Control |
| **Week 4** <br> 26/04/2021 - 02/05/2021 | **SLU07** - Functions: Fundamentals <br> **SLU08** - Functions: Intermediate |
| **Week 5** <br> 03/05/2021 - 09/05/2021 | **SLU09** - OOP Basics |
| **Week 6** <br> 10/05/2021 - 16/05/2021 | **SLU10** - OOP Inheritance <br> **SLU11** - String & File Handling |
| **Week 7** <br> 17/05/2021 - 23/05/2021 | **SLU12** - Linear Algebra & NumPy, Part 1 |
| **Week 8** <br> 24/05/2021 - 30/05/2021 | **SLU13** - Linear Algebra & NumPy, Part 2 <br> **SLU14** - Modules & Packages |
| **Week 9** <br> 31/05/2021 - 06/06/2021 | **SLU15** - Debugging <br> **SLU16** - Final Project |
| **Week 10** <br> 07/06/2021 - 13/06/2021 | **SLU17** - Exam Prep I |
| **Week 11** <br> 14/06/2021 - 20/06/2021 | **SLU18** - Exam Prep II |


<br>


# Practicalities
Here we will talk about each of the channels available in our slack channel and how they should be used. This is super important because it dictates how important information will be organized. Essentially, there will be a Slack channel dedicated to each week's materials, e.g. #setup, #week-01, #week-02, #week-03. Questions should be posted to the right channels, e.g. If you have a question about Week 02, you should go to #week-02 channel and post your questions there.

![](https://i.imgur.com/rF06usq.png)

While it may seem annoying at the moment to have to remember where to post a question, the future you will GREATLY appreciate it when you are looking for where that one clever answer to that one question is. Furthermore, you'll be very grateful not to have a question about a completely unrelated subject right next to your brilliant one. Trust us, the extra effort is worth it!

<br>


# Late policy
If something happens and you could not follow the deadline, you can still ask questions about the previous week's SLU. Just remember to post it in the right Slack channel!

<br>


# How to ask for help
There is one slack rule to rule them all: **DON'T BE SHY! ASK QUESTIONS PUBLICLY**

We know and totally understand that it can be intimidating to ask a question in front of a bunch of other people that you don't even know. We've all been there and can empathize. However, the rewards of overcoming this fear and asking a question in a slack channel that everyone can see are too great to ignore. The benefits, among others, are:

1. **You will get an answer faster.** If 50 people see your question, you will get an answer faster than if 1 person does.
1. **You will get a better answer.** If 50 people see your question, you're likely get a better answer than if 1 person does.
1. **You may make a friend.** It increases the chances of interacting with an interesting person that you may not have met otherwise. These types of peers can increase your chances of success immensely. 

On top of that, for your questions to be answered in the shortest possible time, provide us with enough context to be able to answer it. Among others, you can attach a screenshot or copy-paste formatted code together with your questions. If you, as a student, see a question that you know the answer to, do it! Answer it!

<br>


# Frequently Asked Questions

##### 1. I just want to check that the whole course is 100% remote right?
Everything is 100% remote and online!

##### 2. Do I need to belong to a specific company?
No need to belong to any specific company or university

##### 3. Can you please also confirm if the prep course classes will take place after work hours (18h)?
The Prep course does not occur at any specific time. We only care about you completing all the materials scheduled for that week. Apart from that, you can learn at anywhere and anytime at your own pace.

##### 4. The course's schedule is too intensive for me, can I follow the materials at my own pace instead?
The Prep course's materials are 100% available on Github, and you can always go through it by yourself at any time. However, when the course is already finished, our instructor team will not be available to assist you with every question you might have. So, try your best to follow the Prep course' schedule and make the most out of it even though we know it might be hard sometimes! 

### **I've missed the registration for the Prep Course, but really wanted to prepare for the Academy ... What should I do?**

All materials taught in the Prep Course is publicly available [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/ds-prep-course-2021) . We've tried our best to give very detaled instructions so that you could follow it on your own!
