docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Bootcamp-Experience.md, before:

---
title: Bootcamp Experience
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 2
---

## Remote, safe, and still a community

As everyone is aware, we are living through the biggest public health crisis in living memory. In the interest of safeguarding the instructors and students physical health, we are doing this batch 100% remote.

In normal times, the course is 90% remote. Of the 10% of the time that we meet up, the bootcamp is the most important. It is where everyone spends a few days together and the community aspect of the LDSSA takes root. We think that this sense of community that you get from meeting people in person is what makes the difference between success and dropout for many students. Most online only courses have very high dropout rates (~90%). Our dropout rate is historically very low (~10%).

So our challenge here is to find a way to maintain a sense of community while staying safe.

## Different personalities, different experiences

Everyone is different. Some people really like socializing. Some people don't like people. Everything in between exists. One interesting thing about this batch is going to be that you have much more control over the type of experience you have. In previous batches, we had in person events that we required attendance to. This created an environment where social was the default. Now it will be the opposite where isolated is the default. That's fine for introverts and not so great for extroverts.

Both experiences will use the same technology. The difference is how you use them. So let's talk first about the tech and then how you can use these tools to craft the type of experience that you want.

## The tools

## The google calendar 

The source of truth for the schedule is [the batch4 google calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1?cid=bGlzYm9uZGF0YXNjaWVuY2Uub3JnX3RoNmZwbWltdnF2c28xMnQ3MGNkMWdrdnE4QGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20). You can use the link itself directly or you can add it to your favorite calendar app. 

## Google meet (or google hangouts, same thing)

We will use google meet for the entire bootcamp. If this works we'll continue using it for the rest of the course. We've got a zoom subscription ready to go in the unlikely case this does not work. Make sure that you are prepared to use both google meet AND zoom so that we are able to quickly adapt should the need arise!

### The auditorium room

The auditorium room is the room from which all presentations will be given. This is the big room that everyone can enter when someone needs to speak to everyone else. All SLU presentations and all important announcements will be given from this room and only this room.

[This is the auditorium room](https://meet.google.com/qne-ypod-msq). As with all rooms, when you join, someone will need to let you in. If you see the option appear on your screen to let someone join, do it!

### Side rooms

Side rooms are specific to SLUs, BLUs, Hackathons, and even coffee breaks. On the google calendar, there are links for each of these. If you want to enter a side room, you can leave the auditorium and go into the side room. Easy-peasy. Just don't remember to go back to the auditorium before the next lecture starts!

## Slido

We have all been in that work meeting or class where that one person forgets to mute themselves, making a huge mess of the meeting. Managing so many people in a meeting and making sure everyone gets a turn is a big challenge. To avoid confusion and give everyone a chance to clarify the presentation content or just ask more about a topic, the Q&A this year will make use of slido (https://www.sli.do/).

This is a platform where you can write your own questions or vote for other people’s questions to be answered. Without any need for an account, you can just access the website and introduce a slide code, which will be given both in the beginning of each presentation and at the time of Q&A. The instructor will then go through the most voted questions until their out of time. 

But even if your question doesn’t get answered live, it can still get answered. First, you can take advantage of the rooms to discuss those questions left and answered. But additionally, at the end of the bootcamp all instructors will try to compile a list of questions and answers that will then be shared.

## Slack

This is how you have written conversations and ask questions that don't require an immediate response. The majority of your experience in the academy will be on slack. Please note that there are rooms created for each of the SLUs, BLUs, and hackathons. Be sure to post your question in the right place!

Note that we have not paid for a full slack subscription. This is on purpose. Slack is not a place that should generate a source of truth for anything at all. Slack is for information that is only meant to last for a few days. Anything else needs to go into something official like a github issue or the wiki if you want it preserved. This is because finding information on slack that is more than a few days old is a nightmare.

The most important thing you can do for the bootcamp days is to make sure that you're paying attention to the announcements channel.

## Your experience

There are a few different types of experiences that you can have with this format. A social one or a solitary one. The choice is yours but in the case that you are feeling lost or demotivated, we strongly recommend the social experience. This is how you make the friends that will help you through the course.

### Experience 1: Solitary

This one is easy. If you are overqualified for the course, are super confident that you can breeze through all of the material, and are not a particularly social person then this is the one for you. You leave the auditorium room open, pay attention when presentations are up, and then just work away for the rest of the time.

If you are an introverted person that is not particularly confident in your ability to complete the course, the solitary experience will be very tempting. DON'T DO IT! This is a trap. It's a nice, warm, safe, familiar blanket that will suffocate your chances of completing the course. This is how you end up in your own head with a nice piece of imposter syndrome eating away at your path to success. Bite the bullet and go for Experience 2.

### Experience 2: Social

Send direct messages to people. Jump around to all of the specific rooms. If a technical problem presents itself, be proactive and collaborative in coming up with a solution. Invite someone that interests you to a private video chat. If there's too many people in a specific room for it to be useful, create another one and invite specific people to it. You'll spend less time on the learning material but you'll spend more time problem solving with other people. Problem solving with people is how real relationships are built. Having relationships with people in the course are what will carry you through when you're doubting yourself. 

There are going to be technical difficulties. We are a volunteer organization and this is the first time we've done this. When there are problems, make it an opportunity to meet someone somehow and treat it as an ice breaker. In doing this, you'll make a friend or two and that friend or two will make the next 9 months so much better.

Commit message:

some small link fixes in LDSSA category

docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Bootcamp-Experience.md, after:

---
title: Bootcamp Experience
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 2
---

> ⚠️ Some information in this page might be outdated.


## Remote, safe, and still a community

As everyone is aware, we are living through the biggest public health crisis in living memory. In the interest of safeguarding the instructors and students physical health, we are doing this batch 100% remote.

In normal times, the course is 90% remote. Of the 10% of the time that we meet up, the bootcamp is the most important. It is where everyone spends a few days together and the community aspect of the LDSSA takes root. We think that this sense of community that you get from meeting people in person is what makes the difference between success and dropout for many students. Most online only courses have very high dropout rates (~90%). Our dropout rate is historically very low (~10%).

So our challenge here is to find a way to maintain a sense of community while staying safe.

## Different personalities, different experiences

Everyone is different. Some people really like socializing. Some people don't like people. Everything in between exists. One interesting thing about this batch is going to be that you have much more control over the type of experience you have. In previous batches, we had in person events that we required attendance to. This created an environment where social was the default. Now it will be the opposite where isolated is the default. That's fine for introverts and not so great for extroverts.

Both experiences will use the same technology. The difference is how you use them. So let's talk first about the tech and then how you can use these tools to craft the type of experience that you want.

## The tools

## The google calendar 

The source of truth for the schedule is [the batch4 google calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1?cid=bGlzYm9uZGF0YXNjaWVuY2Uub3JnX3RoNmZwbWltdnF2c28xMnQ3MGNkMWdrdnE4QGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20). You can use the link itself directly or you can add it to your favorite calendar app. 

## Google meet (or google hangouts, same thing)

We will use google meet for the entire bootcamp. If this works we'll continue using it for the rest of the course. We've got a zoom subscription ready to go in the unlikely case this does not work. Make sure that you are prepared to use both google meet AND zoom so that we are able to quickly adapt should the need arise!

### The auditorium room

The auditorium room is the room from which all presentations will be given. This is the big room that everyone can enter when someone needs to speak to everyone else. All SLU presentations and all important announcements will be given from this room and only this room.

[This is the auditorium room](https://meet.google.com/qne-ypod-msq). As with all rooms, when you join, someone will need to let you in. If you see the option appear on your screen to let someone join, do it!

### Side rooms

Side rooms are specific to SLUs, BLUs, Hackathons, and even coffee breaks. On the google calendar, there are links for each of these. If you want to enter a side room, you can leave the auditorium and go into the side room. Easy-peasy. Just don't remember to go back to the auditorium before the next lecture starts!

## Slido

We have all been in that work meeting or class where that one person forgets to mute themselves, making a huge mess of the meeting. Managing so many people in a meeting and making sure everyone gets a turn is a big challenge. To avoid confusion and give everyone a chance to clarify the presentation content or just ask more about a topic, the Q&A this year will make use of slido (https://www.sli.do/).

This is a platform where you can write your own questions or vote for other people’s questions to be answered. Without any need for an account, you can just access the website and introduce a slide code, which will be given both in the beginning of each presentation and at the time of Q&A. The instructor will then go through the most voted questions until their out of time. 

But even if your question doesn’t get answered live, it can still get answered. First, you can take advantage of the rooms to discuss those questions left and answered. But additionally, at the end of the bootcamp all instructors will try to compile a list of questions and answers that will then be shared.

## Slack

This is how you have written conversations and ask questions that don't require an immediate response. The majority of your experience in the academy will be on slack. Please note that there are rooms created for each of the SLUs, BLUs, and hackathons. Be sure to post your question in the right place!

Note that we have not paid for a full slack subscription. This is on purpose. Slack is not a place that should generate a source of truth for anything at all. Slack is for information that is only meant to last for a few days. Anything else needs to go into something official like a github issue or the wiki if you want it preserved. This is because finding information on slack that is more than a few days old is a nightmare.

The most important thing you can do for the bootcamp days is to make sure that you're paying attention to the announcements channel.

## Your experience

There are a few different types of experiences that you can have with this format. A social one or a solitary one. The choice is yours but in the case that you are feeling lost or demotivated, we strongly recommend the social experience. This is how you make the friends that will help you through the course.

### Experience 1: Solitary

This one is easy. If you are overqualified for the course, are super confident that you can breeze through all of the material, and are not a particularly social person then this is the one for you. You leave the auditorium room open, pay attention when presentations are up, and then just work away for the rest of the time.

If you are an introverted person that is not particularly confident in your ability to complete the course, the solitary experience will be very tempting. DON'T DO IT! This is a trap. It's a nice, warm, safe, familiar blanket that will suffocate your chances of completing the course. This is how you end up in your own head with a nice piece of imposter syndrome eating away at your path to success. Bite the bullet and go for Experience 2.

### Experience 2: Social

Send direct messages to people. Jump around to all of the specific rooms. If a technical problem presents itself, be proactive and collaborative in coming up with a solution. Invite someone that interests you to a private video chat. If there's too many people in a specific room for it to be useful, create another one and invite specific people to it. You'll spend less time on the learning material but you'll spend more time problem solving with other people. Problem solving with people is how real relationships are built. Having relationships with people in the course are what will carry you through when you're doubting yourself. 

There are going to be technical difficulties. We are a volunteer organization and this is the first time we've done this. When there are problems, make it an opportunity to meet someone somehow and treat it as an ice breaker. In doing this, you'll make a friend or two and that friend or two will make the next 9 months so much better.
