docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Starters-Academy-(Course).md, before:

---
title: Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 1
---

The Data Science Starters Academy is a series of events dedicated to helping people become entry-level data scientists, by teaching introductory material. 

As of its fourth edition (2020) it consists of approximately 30 Learning Units, 6 Hackathons and 1 capstone project. It contains 3 units to be done during the admission process, see more about it in the [admission process](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Application-process). This edition is also the first to be held remotely, following the guidelines recommended by the portuguese government and the world health organization.

_It should not be mistaken for the [Lisbon Data Science Academy](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Lisbon-Data-Science-Academy-(Organization)), which is the organization responsible for running the course._

## Schedule

The master schedule google calendar is [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1?cid=bGlzYm9uZGF0YXNjaWVuY2Uub3JnX3RoNmZwbWltdnF2c28xMnQ3MGNkMWdrdnE4QGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20) - you can add this calendar to most calendar apps so that you can be sure that you stay aware of all the important dates. Bootcamps happen on the last Sunday of every month. Note that some hours may change on some events as the operations team confirms them with our sponsors.

The high level schedule is as follows:

- June: Prep Work and admissions
- July: Specialization #1 - Bootcamp and Hackathon #1
- August: Specialization #2
- September: Specialization #3
- October: Specialization #4
- November: Specialization #5
- December: Specialization #6
- January & February: Capstone
    - Note that during the second half of December we won't have any deadlines but the material will be available to you in case you'd like to use the time to get ahead on things in preparation for the deadlines in January.

### Bootcamp Details

Even though this is a remote edition, we expect everyone to be virtually present during the full length of the bootcamp. Note that these are 2 intensive days where you should be available for the 10 hour period below so make sure to get a good amount of rest!

#### Saturday and Sunday (July 18th and 19th)

Be sure to check the official calendar for the official source of truth.

#### Sunday (August 2nd) - Hackathon #1
- 8h30 - Session open for students to join
- 9h00 - Hackathon Prompt, Team Assignment
- 9h30 - Start hacking!
- 12h30 - Lunch time
- 14h00 - Goal - make first submission
- 15h00 - Goal - make improved submission
- 16h00 - Start Working on Presentation
- 17h00 - Stop Hacking!
- 17h30 - Team Presentations
- 18h20 - Instructor's Presentation
- 18h30 - Winners Announced
- 18h45 - Closing Remarks
- 20h00 - Remote Networking and Beers



## Structure 
The Starters Academy lasts approximately 30 weeks of part-time work over the course of 8 months. Of that time, there are 8 days where we request of you to be virtually present (usually on Sundays), and the rest is done remote via GitHub, Slack and the Academy's grading and submission system. *You do not need to quit your primary responsibility to take part in this course.*

The curriculum can be referenced via the [curriculum-development repo](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development).


### Time commitment
You should be prepared to spend a recommended *10 hours per week* on the course and an absolute minimum of *5 hours per week* in case you are having a busy week.


### Bootcamp days 
The _Bootcamp_ is a 3-day event that kicks off each Academy over the course of two weekends. The first two days will be on July 18th (Saturday) and 19th (Sunday). The first hackathon is two weeks after the bootcamp, and will be held on August 2nd (Sunday).

During the _Bootcamp_ the students and teachers will participate virtually in a series of presentation and exercises, about 10 hours per day, and the students will go through 16 _Learning Units_. The _Bootcamp_ ends with the first _Hackathon_.

**If you miss the Bootcamp or Hackathon #1, you won't be allowed to participate in any other Starters Academy activities.**

### Learning Units 
_Learning Units_ (LUs) are the backbone of the Academy coursework.
There are two types of LUs: Small Learning Units (SLUs) and Big Learning Units (BLUs).

#### Small Learning Units (SLUs)
SLUs are the LUs that we use during the Bootcamp. They consist of:
1. A presentation
1. A learning notebook, which explains the concepts in detail and shows how to solve the problems
1. An example notebook, which summarizes the concepts so that it can be accessed quickly in the future
1. An exercise notebook, which contains graded challenges for the students to solve, and some optional extra exercises.
We take about 1 hour to go through an SLU on the Bootcamp, but students will need to revisit them later, to review the contents and finish the exercises.

#### Big Learning Units (SLUs)
BLUs are longer LUs that are used during the specializations. They consist of:
1. 3 learning notebooks (usually), which explains the concepts in great detail and shows how to solve the problems
1. An exercise notebook, which contains graded challenges for the students to solve, and some optional extra exercises.
Each specialization has 3 BLUs and it takes about 10 hours to go through the contents and solve the exercises.
 

### Hackathons 
_Hackathons_ are longer and less structured exercises, always done in teams, in which the students must complete a relatively advanced project. Hackathons require the students to make use of the skills they learned in the _Learning Units_, but also to excel at teamwork and communication. Hackathons are graded both on the technical performance of the teams and on their presentation / communication. 

Hackathons consist of: 
1. A set of instructions 
1. A submissions platform for students to submit their answers 
1. A presentations stage, where each team must present their methodology 
1. A leaderboard for students to know where they stand in the rankings

There are 6 hackathons in total.


### Specializations 
Specializations are sets of _Learning Units_ and _Hackathons_, focusing on specific themes.

The first specialization consists of:
- 3 SLUs that are covered during the admissions process (see [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Application-process#admission-tests))
- 16 SLUs that are covered during the Bootcamp
- Hackathon #1 about Binary Classification

The remaining 5 specializations consists of:
- 3 BLUs
- An hackathon

In order to participate in an hackathon, the student must have completed all the LUs for that specialization, with a minimum score of 80%.



### Capstone
The _Capstone_ is the final project, where students will put everything they've learned together. The _Capstone_ must be completed individually.


## Final Certificate

We think that the most important thing you'll take our of the Academy will be the things you'll learn and the people you'll meet. But we recognize that a lot of people value a piece of paper stating that they've participated in something. So, in this edition, we will emit a Data Science Resume representing the student's degree of completion of the Academy.

This resume will list all the Starters Academy's specializations, explain what it means to pass each specialization, and show the grades that you've achieved in each of them. If you miss a specialization, you'll score 0 (zero) on that specialization, and this will be shown in your resume. You'll only be issued a Data Science Resume in case you miss one or zero specializations. 

The capstone, [Bootcamp days](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Starters-Academy-(Course)#bootcamp-days) and Hackathon #1 cannot be missed or delivered late. If you can't attend one of the remaining specializations you're allowed to deliver all the evaluation elements for that specialization (BLUs + hackathon) until the end of the following month, and it won't count as a missed specialization for the resume. For example, if a specialization ends with the hackathon on the 20th of August, this means all materials need to be delivered until September 30th, 23h59.

Commit message:

some small link fixes in LDSSA category

docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Starters-Academy-(Course).md, after:

---
title: Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 1
---

> ⚠️ Some information in this page might be outdated.


The Data Science Starters Academy is a series of events dedicated to helping people become entry-level data scientists, by teaching introductory material. 

As of its fourth edition (2020) it consists of approximately 30 Learning Units, 6 Hackathons and 1 capstone project. It contains 3 units to be done during the admission process, see more about it in the [admission process](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Application-process). This edition is also the first to be held remotely, following the guidelines recommended by the portuguese government and the world health organization.

_It should not be mistaken for the [Lisbon Data Science Academy](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Lisbon-Data-Science-Academy-(Organization)), which is the organization responsible for running the course._

## Schedule

The master schedule google calendar is [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1?cid=bGlzYm9uZGF0YXNjaWVuY2Uub3JnX3RoNmZwbWltdnF2c28xMnQ3MGNkMWdrdnE4QGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20) - you can add this calendar to most calendar apps so that you can be sure that you stay aware of all the important dates. Bootcamps happen on the last Sunday of every month. Note that some hours may change on some events as the operations team confirms them with our sponsors.

The high level schedule is as follows:

- June: Prep Work and admissions
- July: Specialization #1 - Bootcamp and Hackathon #1
- August: Specialization #2
- September: Specialization #3
- October: Specialization #4
- November: Specialization #5
- December: Specialization #6
- January & February: Capstone
    - Note that during the second half of December we won't have any deadlines but the material will be available to you in case you'd like to use the time to get ahead on things in preparation for the deadlines in January.

### Bootcamp Details

Even though this is a remote edition, we expect everyone to be virtually present during the full length of the bootcamp. Note that these are 2 intensive days where you should be available for the 10 hour period below so make sure to get a good amount of rest!

#### Saturday and Sunday (July 18th and 19th)

Be sure to check the official calendar for the official source of truth.

#### Sunday (August 2nd) - Hackathon #1
- 8h30 - Session open for students to join
- 9h00 - Hackathon Prompt, Team Assignment
- 9h30 - Start hacking!
- 12h30 - Lunch time
- 14h00 - Goal - make first submission
- 15h00 - Goal - make improved submission
- 16h00 - Start Working on Presentation
- 17h00 - Stop Hacking!
- 17h30 - Team Presentations
- 18h20 - Instructor's Presentation
- 18h30 - Winners Announced
- 18h45 - Closing Remarks
- 20h00 - Remote Networking and Beers



## Structure 
The Starters Academy lasts approximately 30 weeks of part-time work over the course of 8 months. Of that time, there are 8 days where we request of you to be virtually present (usually on Sundays), and the rest is done remote via GitHub, Slack and the Academy's grading and submission system. *You do not need to quit your primary responsibility to take part in this course.*

The curriculum can be referenced via the [curriculum-development repo](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development).


### Time commitment
You should be prepared to spend a recommended *10 hours per week* on the course and an absolute minimum of *5 hours per week* in case you are having a busy week.


### Bootcamp days 
The _Bootcamp_ is a 3-day event that kicks off each Academy over the course of two weekends. The first two days will be on July 18th (Saturday) and 19th (Sunday). The first hackathon is two weeks after the bootcamp, and will be held on August 2nd (Sunday).

During the _Bootcamp_ the students and teachers will participate virtually in a series of presentation and exercises, about 10 hours per day, and the students will go through 16 _Learning Units_. The _Bootcamp_ ends with the first _Hackathon_.

**If you miss the Bootcamp or Hackathon #1, you won't be allowed to participate in any other Starters Academy activities.**

### Learning Units 
_Learning Units_ (LUs) are the backbone of the Academy coursework.
There are two types of LUs: Small Learning Units (SLUs) and Big Learning Units (BLUs).

#### Small Learning Units (SLUs)
SLUs are the LUs that we use during the Bootcamp. They consist of:
1. A presentation
1. A learning notebook, which explains the concepts in detail and shows how to solve the problems
1. An example notebook, which summarizes the concepts so that it can be accessed quickly in the future
1. An exercise notebook, which contains graded challenges for the students to solve, and some optional extra exercises.
We take about 1 hour to go through an SLU on the Bootcamp, but students will need to revisit them later, to review the contents and finish the exercises.

#### Big Learning Units (SLUs)
BLUs are longer LUs that are used during the specializations. They consist of:
1. 3 learning notebooks (usually), which explains the concepts in great detail and shows how to solve the problems
1. An exercise notebook, which contains graded challenges for the students to solve, and some optional extra exercises.
Each specialization has 3 BLUs and it takes about 10 hours to go through the contents and solve the exercises.
 

### Hackathons 
_Hackathons_ are longer and less structured exercises, always done in teams, in which the students must complete a relatively advanced project. Hackathons require the students to make use of the skills they learned in the _Learning Units_, but also to excel at teamwork and communication. Hackathons are graded both on the technical performance of the teams and on their presentation / communication. 

Hackathons consist of: 
1. A set of instructions 
1. A submissions platform for students to submit their answers 
1. A presentations stage, where each team must present their methodology 
1. A leaderboard for students to know where they stand in the rankings

There are 6 hackathons in total.


### Specializations 
Specializations are sets of _Learning Units_ and _Hackathons_, focusing on specific themes.

The first specialization consists of:
- 3 SLUs that are covered during the admissions process (see [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Application-process#admission-tests))
- 16 SLUs that are covered during the Bootcamp
- Hackathon #1 about Binary Classification

The remaining 5 specializations consists of:
- 3 BLUs
- An hackathon

In order to participate in an hackathon, the student must have completed all the LUs for that specialization, with a minimum score of 80%.



### Capstone
The _Capstone_ is the final project, where students will put everything they've learned together. The _Capstone_ must be completed individually.


## Final Certificate

We think that the most important thing you'll take our of the Academy will be the things you'll learn and the people you'll meet. But we recognize that a lot of people value a piece of paper stating that they've participated in something. So, in this edition, we will emit a Data Science Resume representing the student's degree of completion of the Academy.

This resume will list all the Starters Academy's specializations, explain what it means to pass each specialization, and show the grades that you've achieved in each of them. If you miss a specialization, you'll score 0 (zero) on that specialization, and this will be shown in your resume. You'll only be issued a Data Science Resume in case you miss one or zero specializations. 

The capstone, [Bootcamp days](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Starters-Academy-(Course)#bootcamp-days) and Hackathon #1 cannot be missed or delivered late. If you can't attend one of the remaining specializations you're allowed to deliver all the evaluation elements for that specialization (BLUs + hackathon) until the end of the following month, and it won't count as a missed specialization for the resume. For example, if a specialization ends with the hackathon on the 20th of August, this means all materials need to be delivered until September 30th, 23h59.
