docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Target-audience-and-Pre-requisites-for-the-Starters-Academy.md, before:

---
title: Target Audience and Prerequisites
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 3
---

## Target audience

- Python programmers 
- Peeps who want to enter data science as a profession 

## Participating as a Student 

### Pre-requisites 
The Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy is for [spoiler alert...] Starters! 

No prior knowledge of Data Science is required. 

Comfort with the Python language and [super-basic] Git are however a pre-requisite.  Python and Git will not be taught. 

For an idea of whether you have enough skills of each, consider the following: 
#### Unix

Can you `cd` around? Do you know how to `ls` and `pwd`? Do you shiver when you see `rm -rf *`? You'll be fine. 

#### Python

You should be able to do the following: 

- if and else statements
- for loops
- handle arrays and tuples (including slicing)
- handle lists and dictionaries (including list comprehension)
- string manipulation
- data types (like int, float, string and how to convert variables between them)
- define and use functions
- lambda functions and map
- try except statements
- basics of OOP (like what's a class, how to instantiate one and use methods from the class)

#### Git

you will be expected to use the most frequent Git commands (`pull`, `push`, `add`, `commit`, `checkout`) quite frequently, but nothing much more sophisticated. If I'm being completely honest, [**this**](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/git.png) is all the Git that most data scientists know, and we seem to get along fine. 

Quantitative skills are highly encouraged: if you have a good basis of university level algebra and statistics that will definitely help. Mostly the Academy requires the kind of skills that results from having an education or working experience in the fields of (but not only) Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, Management, Economics, etc.. 

### Application Process and Acceptance Criteria
We wish to ensure that the students that participate take full advantage of the course. In order to do this, we must filter students to ensure that they (1) have enough skills that they will be able to keep up with the coursework and (2) do not already have deep knowledge in all subject matter. 

Students will be required to provide proof of minimum proficiency in Python. A simple website will be provided to accept submissions (including the coding exercise to prove minimum proficiency in python). Students with either (1) insufficient Python skills or (2) who are obviously experts in all subjects to be presented will be rejected. Cheaters will be caught and feathered. 

#### Who should apply

* Technical professionals who want to break into the wonderful world of Data Science 
* Students of technical fields who wish to make data science their first job 
* Technically minded people with little formal training but who are strong self-learners (we check skills, not CVs)

#### Who should **not** apply

* People who do not have a comfortable working knowledge of Python. You'll be frustrated, bored, and we won't be able to help you with basic code questions. If you aren't familiar with Python we suggest doing the wonderful [Codecademy Python Course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python). If you can  

### Cost to students  

While not a profit-making organization, the Academy is not free, to ensure that it is sustainable in the long-term, and that the students are committed to the learning experience. The fees are much lower than for-profit initiatives, as the teaching staff is volunteer based. All revenues are re-invested into future editions of the Academy, or donated to Python-based Open Source initiatives. 

### Code of Conduct  

The Academy operates under a strict [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Code-of-Conduct), based on documents by Coursera and Pydata. Please read the Code of Conduct in full before applying. 

## Volunteering

Check out the [Membership Types](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kQSYyhxYkYIxTXOb2PbQF8qZfGikFzy_nypathWPJ5E/edit?usp=sharing) in the LDSSA charter doc to see what is available.

Commit message:

some small link fixes in LDSSA category

docs/_docs/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Target-audience-and-Pre-requisites-for-the-Starters-Academy.md, after:

---
title: Target Audience and Prerequisites
category: Starters Academy (LDSSA)
order: 3
---

> ⚠️ Some information in this page might be outdated.


## Target audience

- Python programmers 
- Peeps who want to enter data science as a profession 

## Participating as a Student 

### Pre-requisites 
The Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy is for [spoiler alert...] Starters! 

No prior knowledge of Data Science is required. 

Comfort with the Python language and [super-basic] Git are however a pre-requisite.  Python and Git will not be taught. 

For an idea of whether you have enough skills of each, consider the following: 
#### Unix

Can you `cd` around? Do you know how to `ls` and `pwd`? Do you shiver when you see `rm -rf *`? You'll be fine. 

#### Python

You should be able to do the following: 

- if and else statements
- for loops
- handle arrays and tuples (including slicing)
- handle lists and dictionaries (including list comprehension)
- string manipulation
- data types (like int, float, string and how to convert variables between them)
- define and use functions
- lambda functions and map
- try except statements
- basics of OOP (like what's a class, how to instantiate one and use methods from the class)

#### Git

you will be expected to use the most frequent Git commands (`pull`, `push`, `add`, `commit`, `checkout`) quite frequently, but nothing much more sophisticated. If I'm being completely honest, [**this**](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/git.png) is all the Git that most data scientists know, and we seem to get along fine. 

Quantitative skills are highly encouraged: if you have a good basis of university level algebra and statistics that will definitely help. Mostly the Academy requires the kind of skills that results from having an education or working experience in the fields of (but not only) Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, Management, Economics, etc.. 

### Application Process and Acceptance Criteria
We wish to ensure that the students that participate take full advantage of the course. In order to do this, we must filter students to ensure that they (1) have enough skills that they will be able to keep up with the coursework and (2) do not already have deep knowledge in all subject matter. 

Students will be required to provide proof of minimum proficiency in Python. A simple website will be provided to accept submissions (including the coding exercise to prove minimum proficiency in python). Students with either (1) insufficient Python skills or (2) who are obviously experts in all subjects to be presented will be rejected. Cheaters will be caught and feathered. 

#### Who should apply

* Technical professionals who want to break into the wonderful world of Data Science 
* Students of technical fields who wish to make data science their first job 
* Technically minded people with little formal training but who are strong self-learners (we check skills, not CVs)

#### Who should **not** apply

* People who do not have a comfortable working knowledge of Python. You'll be frustrated, bored, and we won't be able to help you with basic code questions. If you aren't familiar with Python we suggest doing the wonderful [Codecademy Python Course](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-python). If you can  

### Cost to students  

While not a profit-making organization, the Academy is not free, to ensure that it is sustainable in the long-term, and that the students are committed to the learning experience. The fees are much lower than for-profit initiatives, as the teaching staff is volunteer based. All revenues are re-invested into future editions of the Academy, or donated to Python-based Open Source initiatives. 

### Code of Conduct  

The Academy operates under a strict [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Code-of-Conduct), based on documents by Coursera and Pydata. Please read the Code of Conduct in full before applying. 

## Volunteering

Check out the [Membership Types](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kQSYyhxYkYIxTXOb2PbQF8qZfGikFzy_nypathWPJ5E/edit?usp=sharing) in the LDSSA charter doc to see what is available.
