docs/_docs/Instructors/BLU-Office-Hours.md, before:

---
title: BLU Office Hours
category: Instructors
order: 2
---

# What and why
 
In order to provide help to students while they are working on their BLUs, we should make instructors available during set times. The reason for this is so that everyone can schedule times where they know they will be able to get help in order to avoid a million questions trickling in over a long period of time which will put a huge burden on the instructors.

Office hours will be 3-hour blocks of time.

## Instructor expectations

It is not expected that the instructors do the BLU ahead of time before an office hours. You can use the beginning of the office hours to do the BLU while answering questions at the same time. This should work because it is expected that it will take instructors about one hour to go through and do the exercises for a complete BLU themselves.

So your 3-hour office hours will be a combo of you learning some really cool stuff yourself while at the same time talking nerdy stuff with students!

## Structure

The structure of an office hours session will be

- Hour 1 - Do the BLU and rack up questions from students
- Hour 2 and 3 - Answer questions and talk with students

## How to answer questions 
Remember to read the [how to give help](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/How-to-ask-for-and-give-help#how-to-give-help) section of the wiki :)

Commit message:

update some links in the Instructors tab

docs/_docs/Instructors/BLU-Office-Hours.md, after:

---
title: BLU Office Hours
category: Instructors
order: 2
---

> ⚠️ Some information in this page might be outdated.


# What and why
 
In order to provide help to students while they are working on their BLUs, we should make instructors available during set times. The reason for this is so that everyone can schedule times where they know they will be able to get help in order to avoid a million questions trickling in over a long period of time which will put a huge burden on the instructors.

Office hours will be 3-hour blocks of time.

## Instructor expectations

It is not expected that the instructors do the BLU ahead of time before an office hours. You can use the beginning of the office hours to do the BLU while answering questions at the same time. This should work because it is expected that it will take instructors about one hour to go through and do the exercises for a complete BLU themselves.

So your 3-hour office hours will be a combo of you learning some really cool stuff yourself while at the same time talking nerdy stuff with students!

## Structure

The structure of an office hours session will be

- Hour 1 - Do the BLU and rack up questions from students
- Hour 2 and 3 - Answer questions and talk with students

## How to answer questions 
Remember to read the [how to give help](/../Students/How-to-ask-for-and-give-help#how-to-give-help) section of the wiki :)
