docs/_docs/Applicants/Application-process.md, before:

---
title: Application Process
category: Applicants
order: 1
---

Applications to the [**Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy**](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Starters-Academy-(Course)) are designed to be fair and equal to anyone who wants to join.

Candidates are required to show that they have sufficient skills to participate. During the application process, they'll have to complete a **coding test** that covers the Academy's [pre-requisites](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Target-audience-and-Pre-requisites-for-the-Starters-Academy#pre-requisites), and **3 Learning Units** about [Pandas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandas_(software)) where we'll teach new concepts and evaluate them. Candidates need to pass both the coding test and the 3 SLUs.

These tests aim to assert that students will be able to take full advantage of the Academy, without being stuck in technical implementation problems. It is a test for _sufficiency_, meaning we're not aiming to take "the best", just to confirm that the students' skills are sufficient.

In case we have more candidates passing the tests than the 50 available seats in the Academy, candidates will be selected at random, respecting all the [entrance restrictions](#entrance-type-restrictions) that we have in place.

Applications will be managed through our Admissions Platform, that can be accessed [here](https://admissions.lisbondatascience.org/account/signup).


## Entrance type restrictions

In order to be consistent with our values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we setup the following rules:
* Maximum of 10 company seats are allowed, with no more than 3 being allowed to come from any particular company
* We want to have at least 35% of female students, so we have a quota mechanism in place to achieve this. You can read more about it [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/forum/issues/1).


## Time commitment and behaviour expectations

All the candidates of the Starters Academy are expected to read, acknowledge and follow our [**Code of Conduct**](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/wiki/Code-of-Conduct#application-to-the-academy). This is one of the first steps in the application process.

In terms of time commitment, the weekly workload of the Academy is about 10h/week. In case you're not able to put in this much time for the majority of the duration of the Academy, you should think twice before applying: if you join the Academy and drop before the end, you'll be wasting a seat that could be better used by someone else!

This year, the Academy will be remote, which means that you can participate from anywhere in the world. However, students are required to be online during all the events (bootcamp and hackathons), and these events will take place in Lisbon/London Time.
So, if you're joining us from a country with a very different timezone, make sure that you're really available considering these timezone differences.

We assume integrity in all of our students so we won't expend any resources attempting to disrupt or detect cheating. Instead, you should only start the application process, if you agree with the following:

- I am willing to dedicate a minimum of 5 hours per week to the academy.
- I understand that to get the most out of the experience, I should spend  an average of 10 hours per week on the Academy.
- I understand that I have to be online during the Academy events, even if, because of timezone differences, this means being online at 4am in the morning.
- I acknowledge that by cheating or being dishonest on the admission tests, or at any time during the course, I am only harming myself and those around me by placing myself in a situation in which I will not have a path to success.
- I acknowledge that if I am caught cheating or it becomes apparent that I cheated on the admission tests, or at any time during the course, I will be expelled from the Academy.


## Application steps and important dates

You can check the official calendar for batch4 [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=lisbondatascience.org_th6fpmimvqvso12t70cd1gkvq8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon).

1. 2020-05-28 to 2020-05-31: Sign-up on the Admission Portal
1. 2020-06-01 to 2020-06-14: Admission test submissions are open
1. 2020-06-15 to 2020-06-19: Candidates (random) selection and payments


### Admission tests

The coding test should take less than 3 hours to complete. You can do the test any time between 2020-06-01 and 2020-06-14, but once you start it you have to complete it within 3 hours (pausing it is not available). So, make sure that you block 3 hours of your time to work on this test.

The Leaning Units about pandas will have two parts: learning and exercises. In the learning part, you'll learn new concepts. In the exercises, we'll evaluate if you understood these new concepts. Only the exercises need to be submitted and will be graded. There are no time constraints for the Learning Units: you can start them at any time after 2020-06-01 and you can make pauses while working on them, as long as you submit them before 2020-06-14.

The dates when you submit the coding test and the Learning Units don't have any influence on the selection process, as long as it's before 2020-06-14. Finishing earlier doesn't give you any advantage, so take your time!

These are the main topics that will be evaluated on the coding test:
- Programming in Python
- Numpy
- Basics of working with the command line terminal
- Git

You can see them in more detail [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/165U7Y9ll0v5oKykIileYOTb7GcMPyQkkl18E-5-h_8k/edit?usp=sharing).

This is the content that will be taught and evaluated on the Learning Units:
- [Pandas 101](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu01)
- [Subsetting Data in Pandas](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu02)
- [Visualization with Pandas & Matplotlib](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu03)


### Candidates selection

After the admission tests period, we'll select the Academy students by taking a random sample over all the candidates who passed the tests. We'll make sure that the [entrance restrictions](#entrance-type-restrictions) are respected.

The candidates who are selected will confirm their application by paying the admission fee. If this fee is not paid on time, we'll reject the candidate and give their seat to the next candidate in line.

### Fees

This year, because of the Covid-19 crisis, we've lowered some of our fees.
For the 2020 Starters Academy, the fees will be:
- Student: 100€ (You'll need to present a valid student card at payment time)
- Regular: 250€
- Company: 1500€


## Scholarships

Other than the 50 seats that we usually have in the Academy, this year we'll have another 50 seats available for scholarships, meant for people who are living with a low / no income.
These scholarships will have a 20€ fee, instead of our regular pricing.

The application process will be exactly the same as the one described above, except that:
- At the beginning of the application process, we'll ask if you need a scholarship. If you do, you'll start your application in the scholarship mode, and **you won't be able to change this afterwards**.
- During the payment period, we'll schedule a video call with you to learn more about you and why you need the scholarship. In this call, you should bring us proof that you're unemployed / have low income. After the call, and in case the scholarship is granted, you'll have to pay the 20€ fee and the application will be approved.

In case we don't fill up all the scholarship seats, we'll select non-scholarship candidates in order to have 100 students on this batch of the Starters Academy.


***


_This is admissions process that will be followed in order to select the students for batch4 of the Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy._

_However, we reserve the right to make changes to this process in case of unforeseen events that harm our Academy’s diversity._

Commit message:

application process - to be updated for batch 5

docs/_docs/Applicants/Application-process.md, after:

---
title: Application Process
category: Applicants
order: 1
---

> 🚧 This page will be updated soon with info and dates for Batch 5.


Applications to the [**Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy**](/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Starters-Academy-(Course)) are designed to be fair and equal to anyone who wants to join.

Candidates are required to show that they have sufficient skills to participate. During the application process, they'll have to complete a **coding test** that covers the Academy's [pre-requisites](/Starters Academy (LDSSA)/Target-audience-and-Pre-requisites-for-the-Starters-Academy), and **3 Learning Units** about [Pandas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandas_(software)) where we'll teach new concepts and evaluate them. Candidates need to pass both the coding test and the 3 SLUs.

These tests aim to assert that students will be able to take full advantage of the Academy, without being stuck in technical implementation problems. It is a test for _sufficiency_, meaning we're not aiming to take "the best", just to confirm that the students' skills are sufficient.

In case we have more candidates passing the tests than the 50 available seats in the Academy, candidates will be selected at random, respecting all the [entrance restrictions](#entrance-type-restrictions) that we have in place.

Applications will be managed through our Admissions Platform, that can be accessed [here](https://admissions.lisbondatascience.org/account/signup).


## Entrance type restrictions

In order to be consistent with our values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we setup the following rules:
* Maximum of 10 company seats are allowed, with no more than 3 being allowed to come from any particular company
* We want to have at least 35% of female students, so we have a quota mechanism in place to achieve this. You can read more about it [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/forum/issues/1).


## Time commitment and behaviour expectations

All the candidates of the Starters Academy are expected to read, acknowledge and follow our [**Code of Conduct**](/../About us/Code-of-Conduct#application-to-the-academy). This is one of the first steps in the application process.

In terms of time commitment, the weekly workload of the Academy is about 10h/week. In case you're not able to put in this much time for the majority of the duration of the Academy, you should think twice before applying: if you join the Academy and drop before the end, you'll be wasting a seat that could be better used by someone else!

This year, the Academy will be remote, which means that you can participate from anywhere in the world. However, students are required to be online during all the events (bootcamp and hackathons), and these events will take place in Lisbon/London Time.
So, if you're joining us from a country with a very different timezone, make sure that you're really available considering these timezone differences.

We assume integrity in all of our students so we won't expend any resources attempting to disrupt or detect cheating. Instead, you should only start the application process, if you agree with the following:

- I am willing to dedicate a minimum of 5 hours per week to the academy.
- I understand that to get the most out of the experience, I should spend  an average of 10 hours per week on the Academy.
- I understand that I have to be online during the Academy events, even if, because of timezone differences, this means being online at 4am in the morning.
- I acknowledge that by cheating or being dishonest on the admission tests, or at any time during the course, I am only harming myself and those around me by placing myself in a situation in which I will not have a path to success.
- I acknowledge that if I am caught cheating or it becomes apparent that I cheated on the admission tests, or at any time during the course, I will be expelled from the Academy.


## Application steps and important dates

You can check the official calendar for Batch 4 [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=lisbondatascience.org_th6fpmimvqvso12t70cd1gkvq8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FLisbon).

1. 2020-05-28 to 2020-05-31: Sign-up on the Admission Portal
1. 2020-06-01 to 2020-06-14: Admission test submissions are open
1. 2020-06-15 to 2020-06-19: Candidates (random) selection and payments


### Admission tests

The coding test should take less than 3 hours to complete. You can do the test any time between 2020-06-01 and 2020-06-14, but once you start it you have to complete it within 3 hours (pausing it is not available). So, make sure that you block 3 hours of your time to work on this test.

The Leaning Units about pandas will have two parts: learning and exercises. In the learning part, you'll learn new concepts. In the exercises, we'll evaluate if you understood these new concepts. Only the exercises need to be submitted and will be graded. There are no time constraints for the Learning Units: you can start them at any time after 2020-06-01 and you can make pauses while working on them, as long as you submit them before 2020-06-14.

The dates when you submit the coding test and the Learning Units don't have any influence on the selection process, as long as it's before 2020-06-14. Finishing earlier doesn't give you any advantage, so take your time!

These are the main topics that will be evaluated on the coding test:
- Programming in Python
- Numpy
- Basics of working with the command line terminal
- Git

You can see them in more detail [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JzRfuacM5Q_XsnSMgEqOZH_cCBnT0J6K-e-687fFa6s/edit#gid=2018895387).

This is the content that will be taught and evaluated on the Learning Units:
- [Pandas 101](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu01)
- [Subsetting Data in Pandas](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu02)
- [Visualization with Pandas & Matplotlib](https://github.com/LDSSA/curriculum-development/blob/master/curriculum/01-bootcamp-and-binary-classification.md#slu03)


### Candidates selection

After the admission tests period, we'll select the Academy students by taking a random sample over all the candidates who passed the tests. We'll make sure that the [entrance restrictions](#entrance-type-restrictions) are respected.

The candidates who are selected will confirm their application by paying the admission fee. If this fee is not paid on time, we'll reject the candidate and give their seat to the next candidate in line.

### Fees

This year, because of the Covid-19 crisis, we've lowered some of our fees.
For the 2020 Starters Academy, the fees will be:
- Student: 100€ (You'll need to present a valid student card at payment time)
- Regular: 250€
- Company: 1500€


## Scholarships

Other than the 50 seats that we usually have in the Academy, this year we'll have another 50 seats available for scholarships, meant for people who are living with a low / no income.
These scholarships will have a 20€ fee, instead of our regular pricing.

The application process will be exactly the same as the one described above, except that:
- At the beginning of the application process, we'll ask if you need a scholarship. If you do, you'll start your application in the scholarship mode, and **you won't be able to change this afterwards**.
- During the payment period, we'll schedule a video call with you to learn more about you and why you need the scholarship. In this call, you should bring us proof that you're unemployed / have low income. After the call, and in case the scholarship is granted, you'll have to pay the 20€ fee and the application will be approved.

In case we don't fill up all the scholarship seats, we'll select non-scholarship candidates in order to have 100 students on this batch of the Starters Academy.


***


_This is admissions process that will be followed in order to select the students for batch4 of the Lisbon Data Science Starters Academy._

_However, we reserve the right to make changes to this process in case of unforeseen events that harm our Academy’s diversity._
