docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Start here
---

Welcome to the Wiki of the Lisbon Data Science Academy (LDSA), built for applicants, students and volunteers! Use this as your official source of truth for the Academy.

🎓 If you're looking to apply as a student, [subscribe here](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) to get updates on upcoming courses and application timeline.<br>
🤝 If you wish to join the LDSA as volunteer, reach out [by email](mailto:info@lisbondatascience.org) or any of the social platforms below. We accept both technical and non-technical volunteers.

[<img alt="gmail" src="images/gmail.png"/>](mailto:info@lisbondatascience.org) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="website" src="images/globe.png"/>](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="linkedin" src="images/github.png"/>](https://github.com/LDSSA) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="facebook" src="images/facebook.png"/>](https://www.facebook.com/LisbonDataScience/) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="linkedin" src="images/linkedin.png" style="background-color:white"/>](https://www.linkedin.com/company/lisbondatascience/)

[Leave your email here](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) to receive our latest updates!

---

**Contribute** to this Wiki on [github.com/LDSSA/wiki/](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/).
Please report any bugs, typos, or feedback [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/issues/new).

Commit message:

add recruiting message to start page

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Start here
---

Welcome to the Wiki of the Lisbon Data Science Academy (LDSA), built for applicants, students and volunteers! Use this as your official source of truth for the Academy.

🎓 If you're looking to apply as a student, [subscribe here](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) to get updates on upcoming courses and application timeline.<br>
🤝 If you wish to join the LDSA as volunteer, reach out [by email](mailto:info@lisbondatascience.org) or any of the social platforms below. We accept both technical and non-technical volunteers.

[<img alt="gmail" src="images/gmail.png"/>](mailto:info@lisbondatascience.org) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="website" src="images/globe.png"/>](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="linkedin" src="images/github.png"/>](https://github.com/LDSSA) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="facebook" src="images/facebook.png"/>](https://www.facebook.com/LisbonDataScience/) &nbsp; &nbsp; [<img alt="linkedin" src="images/linkedin.png" style="background-color:white"/>](https://www.linkedin.com/company/lisbondatascience/)

[Leave your email here](https://www.lisbondatascience.org/) to receive our latest updates!

---

🙋‍♂️🙋‍♀️ **We're recruiting!!** We are currently recruiting volunteers for the following Areas of Responsibility:
- **Operations** (lead needed!)
- **Admissions** (lead needed!)
- **Quality Assurance** (lead by Filipa Rodrigues)
- **Student Success** (lead by Ricardo José Neves Alberto)
- **Documentation** (lead by Juliana Rodrigues)
- **Dev-Ops** (lead by Hugo Castilho)
- **Teaching** - several BLUs and SLUs (lead by Catarina Silva)

---

**Contribute** to this Wiki on [github.com/LDSSA/wiki/](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/).
Please report any bugs, typos, or feedback [here](https://github.com/LDSSA/wiki/issues/new).
